the White House says US President Joe
Biden has pressed Israel's Benjamin
Netanyahu to protect civilian lives in
Gaza Biden said he spoke at length with
Netanyahu on Saturday about Israel's war
against Hamas militants they reportedly
discussed the objectives of the military
campaign in Gaza but the US stopped
short of calling for a ceasefire Hamas
is considered a terrorist organization
by the EU and us the Hamas run Gaza
Health Ministry says more than 100
people have been killed by Israeli
forces over the past 24 hours the
violence follows a un Security Council
resolution to boost humanitarian
Aid another day in Gaza another Mass
burial gaza's Hamas run Health Ministry
says the number killed since October 7th
has surpassed
20,000 that's roughly 1% of the strip's
entire population Israel however shows
no sign of letting up its
bombardment this Israeli Army footage
purportedly shows a strike on a Hass
official being transported by
car it's part of what Israel says are
expanded ground operations in the bed
territory it's part of the war it's a
difficult war against a brutal enemy
that's entrenched in the field above and
especially below it as well as amongst
the civilian population
we are striking Hamas but this is a
protracted difficult operation that will
continue a while
longer these expanded operations come as
two of Israel's most senior cabinet
members visited troops in Northern Gaza
the Israeli government is under mounting
pressure internationally as the
humanitarian situation worsens and
domestically at a rally in Tel Aviv
hundreds of people came together calling
for the government to secure the host's
release some went further chanting for
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu also
known as BB to step
[Music]
down we need to make sure that
bam will go away he makes more harm more
harm than good and he betrayed the the
uh people this government has failed its
citizens in every possible way from the
most basic one about basic safety to uh
compromising its Democratic Values
nothing of any value can happen either
here or in Gaza while these people are
still in
power the Israeli government insists it
won't stop until Hamas has been
completely destroyed it has not however
set out a vision of what that would look
like
or what comes
next and for more let's speak to
journalist Sami sool who joins us now
from Jerusalem Samy good to have you
with us uh first of all uh could you
please give us the latest on the
situation in
Gaza well I I will start with the fact
that the IDF spokesperson has announced
that there are more soldiers that have
been killed all in all the announced the
killing of 13 Israeli soldiers in the
last 12 hours in different locations
both in the area of Junes and in other
places which is to show that the Israeli
forces are facing a tough resistance by
the Palestinian Fighters there they're
using uh explosive
devices anti-tank RPGs ET ET on top of
that of course Israel is continuing to
Shell including residential areas we're
talking about shelling both with
artillery air from the sea uh so this is
an
ongoing war that has different aspects
to it now we uh heard in this report of
course that US President Joe Biden has
urged Benjamin Netanyahu to protect Civ
Ian lives in Gaza how much weight do
Biden's words carry uh enough to make
netan change Israel's military
strategy well it's clear that Biden
President Biden has been successful in
in pushing Israel to accept the
humanitarian Aid that will go into the
Gaza Strip uh we're yet to see how this
Aid that has already entered yesterday
will be distributed throughout the the
Gaza Strip um but when it comes to the
way Israel is conducting its campaign I
don't think that the Americans are
micromanaging uh this kind of way of
Israel's Warfare uh We've also heard uh
the American defense Secret Lloyd Austin
when he was here and he was meeting with
Israeli officials he was saying you know
we're not giving the Israelis a a
deadline uh we're not going to tell them
how to run the war he said we're going
to give them
advice as to bring about less casualties
well so far we still see these kind of
casualties among civilians uh so we're
still waiting to see what will be the
impact of the these uh
statements and of course in the meantime
uh the Israeli government in particular
Benjamin Netanyahu is uh facing growing
dissatisfaction um and criticism of
course uh not just internationally but
also at home to tell us more about
that yes so first of all in Netanyahu is
very unpopular and all the polls have
been indicating uh that he there are
other candidates that would be more
popular if there would be any elections
now he would not be forming uh the next
government and this is mainly attributed
to the fact that he's Head of the State
during the attack on the 7th of October
and also the way the government has been
managing the internal issues inside
Israel h so so definitely we have these
calls and and last night there were
protests in different locations
demanding the resignation of Netanyahu
but we shouldn't confuse it with the
Israeli aggressive approach towards the
Gaza Strip only 11% of the Israeli
public in a recent poll said that they
support an immediate ceas fire that
would bring about the hostage exchange
so I I would say that when it comes to
the way Israel is waging its campaign
inside the Gaza Strip it's still
enjoying a support in the Israeli public
all right journalist Sami sakul there
reporting for us in Jerusalem Sami uh
thank you so very
much